Build Instructions
------------------

* Requirements
  ------------

  - A POSIX-compliant C development environment
  - GNU make version 3.81 or later
  - skalibs version 2.9.1.0 or later: http://skarnet.org/software/skalibs/
  - execline version 2.5.3.0 or later: http://skarnet.org/software/execline/

 This software will run on any operating system that implements
POSIX.1-2008, available at:
  http://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/


* Standard usage
  --------------

  ./configure && make && sudo make install

 will work for most users.
 It will install the binaries in /bin and the static libraries in
/usr/lib/s6.

 Please note that static libraries in /usr/lib/s6 *will not*
be found by a default linker invocation: you need -L/usr/lib/s6.
Other skarnet.org software automatically handles that case if the
default configuration is used, but if you change the configuration,
remember to use the appropriate --with-lib configure option.

 You can strip the binaries and libraries of their extra symbols via
"make strip" before the "make install" phase. It will shave a few bytes
off them.


* Customization
  -------------

 You can customize paths via flags given to configure.
 See ./configure --help for a list of all available configure options.


* Environment variables
  ---------------------

 Controlling a build process via environment variables is a big and
dangerous hammer. You should try and pass flags to configure instead;
nevertheless, a few standard environment variables are recognized.

 If the CC environment variable is set, its value will override compiler
detection by configure. The --host=HOST option will still add a HOST-
prefix to the value of CC.

 The values of CFLAGS, CPPFLAGS and LDFLAGS will be appended to flags
auto-detected by configure. To entirely override the flags set by
configure instead, use make variables.


* Make variables
  --------------

 You can invoke make with a few variables for more configuration.

 CC, CFLAGS, CPPFLAGS, LDFLAGS, LDLIBS, AR, RANLIB, STRIP, INSTALL and
CROSS_COMPILE can all be overridden on the make command line. This is
an even bigger hammer than running ./configure with environment
variables, so it is advised to only do this when it is the only way of
obtaining the behaviour you want.

 DESTDIR can be given on the "make install" command line in order to
install to a staging directory.


* Shared libraries
  ----------------

 Software from skarnet.org is small enough that shared libraries are
generally not worth using. Static linking is simpler and incurs less
runtime overhead and less points of failure: so by default, shared
libraries are not built and binaries are linked against the static
versions of the skarnet.org libraries. Nevertheless, you can:
  * build shared libraries: --enable-shared
  * link binaries against shared libraries: --disable-allstatic


* Static binaries
  ---------------

 By default, binaries are linked against static versions of all the
libraries they depend on, except for the libc. You can enforce
linking against the static libc with --enable-static-libc.

 (If you are using a GNU/Linux system, be aware that the GNU libc
behaves badly with static linking and produces huge executables,
which is why it is not the default. Other libcs are better suited
to static linking, for instance musl: http://musl-libc.org/)

 s6 includes software running at a very low level, including a
program that may run as process 1: to avoid run-time dependencies,
it is recommended that you link the executables statically if you
have a suitable libc.


* Cross-compilation
  -----------------

 skarnet.org packages centralize all the difficulty of
cross-compilation in one place: skalibs. Once you have
cross-compiled skalibs, the rest is easy.

 * Use the --host=HOST option to configure, HOST being the triplet
for your target.
 * Make sure your cross-toolchain binaries (i.e. prefixed with HOST-)
are accessible via your PATH environment variable.
 * Make sure to use the correct version of skalibs for your target,
and the correct sysdeps directory, making use of the
--with-include, --with-lib, --with-dynlib and --with-sysdeps
options as necessary.


* The slashpackage convention
  ---------------------------

 The slashpackage convention (http://cr.yp.to/slashpackage.html)
is a package installation scheme that provides a few guarantees
over other conventions such as the FHS, for instance fixed
absolute pathnames. skarnet.org packages support it: use the
--enable-slashpackage option to configure, or
--enable-slashpackage=DIR for a prefixed DIR/package tree.
This option will activate slashpackage support during the build
and set slashpackage-compatible installation directories.
If $package_home is the home of the package, defined as
DIR/package/$category/$package-$version with the variables
read from the package/info file, then:

  --dynlibdir is set to $package_home/library.so
  --bindir is set to $package_home/command
  --sbindir is also set to $package_home/command (slashpackage
differentiates root-only binaries by their Unix rights, not their
location in the filesystem)
  --libexecdir is also set to $package_home/command (slashpackage
does not need a specific directory for internal binaries)
  --libdir is set to $package_home/library
  --includedir is set to $package_home/include

 --prefix is pretty much ignored when you use --enable-slashpackage.
You should probably not use both --enable-slashpackage and --prefix.

 When using slashpackage, two additional Makefile targets are
available after "make install":
 - "make update" changes the default version of the software to the
freshly installed one. (This is useful when you have several installed
versions of the same software, which slashpackage supports.)
 - "make -L global-links" adds links from /command and /library.so to the
default version of the binaries and shared libraries. The "-L" option to
make is necessary because targets are symbolic links, and the default make
behaviour is to check the pointed file's timestamp and not the symlink's
timestamp.


* Absolute pathnames
  ------------------

 You may want to use fixed absolute pathnames even if you're not
following the slashpackage convention: for instance, the Nix packaging
system prefers calling binaries with immutable paths rather than rely on
PATH resolution. If you are in that case, use the --enable-absolute-paths
option to configure. This will ensure that programs calling binaries from
this package will call them with their full installation path (in bindir)
without relying on a PATH search.


* Out-of-tree builds
  ------------------

 skarnet.org packages do not support out-of-tree builds. They
are small, so it does not cost much to duplicate the entire
source tree if parallel builds are needed.
Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

    TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

    1. Definitions.

       "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

       "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

       "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

       "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

       "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

       "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

       "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

       "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

       "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

       "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

    2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

    3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

    4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

       (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

       (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

       (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

       (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

       You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.
